Hey, this is pre towalker.
Here's a fun geometry problem. We have a
quarter circle that's subdivided into
smaller regions. Two of the regions have
been shaded in red. The question is,
what is the area that's shaded in red?
I heard about this problem in a
community post by Yorub Ali, who I want
to thank for sharing this on the YouTube
community page. And I also want to thank
the solution that was given by at Fasa
Lich. It's so amazing that I just had to
share it. So how can we solve this
problem?
As usual, there are many different ways
to go about it, but in this video I'm
going to present one method that I found
quite ingenious. So we have a quarter
circle that's subdivided into different
regions. Two of the regions are red, but
we have four regions that are not shaded
in red. So what will be the sum of these
regions? So let's take one quarter
circle and we'll take this shape right
here. Now what's the total area of these
two shapes? We could directly calculate
it, but here's a fun trick. Let's take
this quarter circle and rotate it 90°
about its center clockwise.
Now this quarter circle plus this other
green area will form a square. So the
total area that's shaded in green will
be the same as the area of a square with
a side length equal to 1 cm. So that
will be 1 * 1 which equals 1 square cm.
And that's exactly the total area of
this quarter circle and this green area.
Now the same will be true for this
quarter circle and this green area. If
we rotate this 90° anticlockwise,
we will form a square by these two green
regions. So the total area that's shaded
in green will be 1 * 1, which equals 1
square cm.
So we figured out the total area of
these two shapes. So now let's take a
look at our problem.
Let's shade four of these regions in
green. The other two regions will be
shaded in red.
So if we take the sum of the red areas
and the sum of the green areas, this
will exactly be the total area. If we
subtract the green areas from both sides
of this equation, that means the red
areas will be equal to the total area
minus the green areas. But we know the
green areas it will be equal to 1 + 1
square cm. So we know that the green
area is equal to 2 square cm.
So what's the total area? That will be
equal to the area of a quarter circle
with a radius length equal to 2 cm. So
we have the area of a circle p<unk> r^ 2
/ 4. In this case, r is equal to 2. So
we have p<unk> * 2 ^ 2 / 4. 2 ^2 is
equal to 4 / 4 will be equal to 1. So
the total area of this quarter circle
will be equal to p<unk> square cm. So we
just substitute in and we get that the
red area is equal to<unk> - 2 square cm.
This is approximately equal to 1.14
square cm. And that's the answer. Wow.
Now for those that don't know, the
community page is a new feature on the
YouTube app. So if you go to the channel
page, it'll look something like this.
And if you click on this button, visit
community, you will visit the community
page, where you can share whatever post
you want that's related to the channel
or related about math. I want to hear
what you guys have to say. And I love
problem suggestions like this, alternate
solutions to videos, or any other
interesting comments. Please do check it
out and let me know what you think.
Thanks for making us one of the best
communities on YouTube. See you next
episode of Mind Your Decisions, where we
solve the world's problems, one video at
a time.